	From: 	Ian McGreer <imcgreer@as.arizona.edu>
	Subject: 	progress...
	Date: 	September 12, 2011 2:17:37 PM PDT
	To: 		Nic Ross <npross@lbl.gov>
	
	8 Attachments (563KB)


Hi Nic-

Just wanted to pass on some updates on my contributions to selection etc.
for the luminosity function work. The main update is that I found a nasty
bug in my code that, on the one hand, made a big improvement in terms of how
things look, but on the other hand had led to much hair-pulling over the
past few weeks. My main concern was that when I was at LBL I made a heatmap
of an "empirical" selection function derived by asking how many variability
selected quasars on Stripe 82 were also XD selected. This map showed a much
lower selection efficiency than I was getting out of my models, which of
course made me question the models, but irritatingly it just turned out to
be a stupid bug in the code that took some time to figure out.

I would say that, as of last week, I was ~80% confident that the models were
working well, with the bug fix I'm more like 95%, and I'm really down to
nitty gritty now where I can try to get the colors right at the few percent
level, and in doing so actually constrain, e.g., the intrinsic continuum
shape distribution.

I've attached a bunch of things for your perusal, and after a couple more
days to vet things I will post updates to the wiki page that is now woefully
out of date.

compare_stripe82_to_sims_selfn.png: blue error bars are the binned selection
function derived by the fraction of ALL Stripe82 quasars that are selected
by XD. The green dashed line is the XD selection function taken from one of
my models. The red crosses are the model selection function set to match the
binning of the real data, and except for bright objects in the z>3 bin it
looks pretty good. Note that there are a lot of caveats here, the main one
being that the simulations use a regular grid of (M,z) points, whereas the
real data is drawn from a luminosity function, so they are not exactly
matched in (M,z) space (I could account for this by using much smaller bins,
but there aren't enough quasars for that). Overall I'm pretty happy with
this, and after some tweaking I think a version of this plot would be useful
for the paper.

compare_stripe82_to_sims_heatmap.png: a 2D heatmap of the empirical Stripe82
selection function [as in, N(XD)/N(ALL)]. Note that the bins with zero value
just mean there were no quasars in that bin, not necessarily that the
selection function is zero there.

grid_*_i_z_PQSOMIDZmap.png: the same thing from the simulations. This
compares favorably to the empirical version. The three different models are
"fiducial", which basically matches
Fan+99,Richards+06,Worseck&Prochaska10,etc.; "dusty", my model using an
exponential dust distribution; "newcont", like dusty, but with a continuum
distribution that reproduces the colors better. (here red does mean
selection function = 0).

grid_*_iPQSOMIDZ_sel.txt: the text table versions of the model selection
functions in the format I sent you before.


Quite a bit to digest, but if you're in the mood, I'm curious just how much
changing the selection function will affect the derived luminosity function.
If it's an easy thing to do, could you plot up the luminosity function for
all three of those models? I'm curious to compare the results. I suppose I
could do this myself, but I'm assuming you already have code for calculating
the LF.

Cheers,
-Ian
